=head1 NAME

HTCFlasher - Rom Update Utility (RUU) for HTC based devices

=head1 SYNOPSIS

HTCFlasher [-h] [-D device] [-X file] [-F file] [-i] [-v] [-p]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

HTCFlasher is a tool that allows flashing ROMs on HTC based
devices (PocketPC and SmartPhones). You have put your device in
bootloader mode (tri-color screen), you usually do this by
pressing a button combination (tipically camera button + soft
reset). Once the device is in bootloader mode, connect it using
the USB Sync cable to a free USB port. The device should be
detected as '/dev/ttyUSB0' or similar, if not try loading the
ipaq kernel module.

Once the device is recognized, you can connect to the bootloader
and issue commands, flash a new ROM upgrade, or get device
information. You can also extract the contents of the ROM upgrade
file before flashing it, to examine what you are going to flash.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<-h> display a short help text

B<-D> use the given device instead of /dev/ttyUSB0

B<-X> Extract the contents of a NBH upgrade file

B<-F> Flash a NBH upgrade file to the device

B<-i> Get device information, usually the CID (Country ID) and
the ModelID (short name identifying the device model)

B<-v> Verbose mode. Shows a lot of debugging output.

B<-p> Serial prompt. You can directly type commands to the
bootloader. Type 'quit' to exit.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Get device information:

          HTCFlasher -i

Flash a NBH upgrade file in verbose mode:

          HTCFlasher -v -F RUU_signed.nbh

Extract ROM contents from a NBH upgrade file:

          HTCFlasher -X RUU_signed.nbh

=head1 EXIT STATUS

HTCFlasher returns a zero exit status if it succeeds to
execute the command. Non zero is returned in case of failure.

=head1 AUTHOR

Written by Pau Oliva Fora

=head1 REPORTING BUGS

Please report bugs here:
http://code.google.com/p/htc-flasher/issues/list

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright © 2008 Pau Oliva Fora.  License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

=head1 SEE ALSO

HTCFlasherGUI(1)
