=head1 NAME

yang - Yet Another NBH Generator

=head1 SYNOPSIS

yang -F <filename> -f <file1,file2,...> -t <type1,type2,...> -s <chunksize> -d <device> -c <CID> -v <version> -l <language>


=head1 DESCRIPTION

Yang is a tool that allows to create custom NBH files from NB ROM parts.
You can combine all the NB ROM parts and create a single NBH file ready to flash.
The NBH files created using yang are not signed with the HTC certificate, so
you'll need a method to bypass signature checking on your device bootloader.
This is typically done using methods such as HardSPL, JumpSPL, USPL, etc. as
published in xda-developers.com forum.

=head1 OPTIONS

All options are mandatory. 

B<-F> Output NBH file name.

B<-f> Comma separated list of input NB files (ROM parts).

B<-t> Comma separated list of input NB header types. Must be
in the same order as the ROM parts. See the section NBH header types
below for more information.

B<-s> SignMaxChunkSize. This should be 64 or 1024 depending on the
device. For example HTC Kaiser uses 64, and HTC Excalibur uses 1024.
If you don't know which one uses your device, the best way is to extract
the NBH from a shipped ROM, and generate it again using the extracted
ROM parts. The generated NBH file size should match the original NBH
file size. Try both values (64 and 1024) and see which one matches your
device.

B<-d> Device name or Model ID. This should match the one on your device,
again extract a shipped NBH or use the Get Device Info option from HTCFlasher(1).

B<-c> This should match the CID on your device, again extract a shipped NBH
or use the Get Device Info option from HTCFlasher(1).

B<-v> This is just a version number field. You can put whatever you want here.

B<-l> This is just a language field, generally 3 letters, however you can put
whatever you want here. Typical values are WWE for English, ESN for spanish,
FRA for french, etc.

=head1 NBH HEADER TYPES

These are the typical values for most common NBH header types.

IPL: 0x100, 0x101, 0x102

SPL: 0x200

GSM: 0x300, 0x301

OS: 0x400, 0x401

MainSplash: 0x600

SubSplash: 0x601

ExtROM: 0x700, 0x900

To make sure you generate the NBH correctly for your device you should
first extract the NBH file from a shipped ROM and get the header types
for each file from the extracted file names.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Generate a NBH file containing only a Splash Screen, valid for any HTC Kaiser device:

          yang -F RUU_signed.nbh -t 0x600 -f 00_MainSplash_0x600.nb -s 64 -d KAIS***** -c 11111111 -v 1.0 -l WWE

Generate a NBH file containing a GSM radio firmware, an SPL, a Splash Screen and a WinCE OS image, valid for HTC Shift devices with CID HTC__017:

          yang -F RUU_signed.nbh -t 0x301,0x200,0x600,0x400 -f GSM.nb,SPL.nb,Splash.nb,OS.nb -s 64 -d CLIO10000 -c HTC__017 -v 1.30.453.0 -l USA

Generate a NBH file containing IPL, SPL, MainSplash, GSM, OS and unknown(0x800) files, for HTC Excalibur device:

	yang -F RUU_signed.nbh -f 00_IPL_0x100.nb,01_SPL_0x200.nb,02_MainSplash_0x600.nb,03_GSM_0x300.nb,04_OS_0x400.nb,05_unknown_0x800.nb -t 0x100,0x200,0x600,0x300,0x400,0x800 -s 1024 -d EXCA20000 -c HTC__001 -v 1.11.405.4 -l ENG

	=== yang v1.0: Yet Another NBH Generator
	=== (c) 2008 Pau Oliva Fora - pof @ XDA-Developers

	[] Output NBH file: RUU_unsigned.nbh
	[] Input files: 00_IPL_0x100.nb,01_SPL_0x200.nb,02_MainSplash_0x600.nb,03_GSM_0x300.nb,04_OS_0x400.nb,05_unknown_0x800.nb
	[] Input types: 0x100,0x200,0x600,0x300,0x400,0x800
	[] SignMaxChunkSize: 1024
	[] Device: EXCA20000
	[] CID: HTC__001
	[] Version: 1.11.405.4
	[] Language: ENG

	[] 0x100 --> 00_IPL_0x100.nb
	[] 0x200 --> 01_SPL_0x200.nb
	[] 0x600 --> 02_MainSplash_0x600.nb
	[] 0x300 --> 03_GSM_0x300.nb
	[] 0x400 --> 04_OS_0x400.nb
	[] 0x800 --> 05_unknown_0x800.nb

	Done!

=head1 EXIT STATUS

yang returns a zero exit status if it succeeds to
execute the command. Non zero is returned in case of failure.

=head1 AUTHOR

Written by Pau Oliva Fora

=head1 REPORTING BUGS

Please report bugs here:
http://code.google.com/p/htc-flasher/issues/list

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright © 2008 Pau Oliva Fora.  License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

=head1 SEE ALSO

HTCFlasher(1)
